Nebuchadnezzar the king all peoples
nations and languages that dwell in all
the earth peace be multiplied to you I
thought it good to declare the signs and
wonders that the Most High God has
worked for me how greater his science
and how mighty his wonders his kingdom
is an everlasting Kingdom and his
Dominion is from generation to
generation I never can answer was at
rest in my house and flourishing in my
palace I saw a dream which made me
afraid and the thoughts on my bed and
the visions of my head troubled me
therefore I issued a decree to bring in
all the wise men of Babylon before me
that they might make known to me the
interpretation of the dream then the
magician's the astrologers the Chaldeans
and the soothsayers came in and I told
them the dream but they did not make
known to me its interpretation but at
last Daniel came before me
his name is Delta Shazza according to
the name of my God in him as the spirit
of the holy God and I told the dream
before him saying Delta Shazza
chief of the magician's because I know
that the spirit of the holy God is in
you and no secret troubles you explain
to me the visions of my dream that I
have seen and its interpretation these
were the visions of my head while on my
bed I was looking
and behold a tree in the midst of the
earth and its height was great the tree
grew and became strong its height
reached to the heavens and it could be
seen to the ends of all the earth its
leaves were lovely its fruit abundant
and in it was food for all the beasts of
the field found shade unhurt the birds
of the heavens dwelt in its branches and
all flesh was fed from it I saw in the
visions of my head while on my bed and
there was a watcher a holy one coming
down from heaven he cried aloud and said
thus chop down the tree and cut off its
branches strip off its leaves and
scatter its fruit let the beasts get out
from under it and the birds from its
branches nevertheless leave the stump
and roots in the earth bound with a band
of iron and bronze in the tender grass
of the field
let it be wet with the dew of heaven and
let him graze with the beasts on the
grass of the earth let his heart be
changed from that of a man let him be
given the heart of a beast and let seven
times pass over him
this decision is by the decree of the
Watchers and the sentence by the word of
the Holy Ones in order that the living
may know that the most high rules in the
kingdom of men gives it to whomever he
will and sets over it the lowest of men
this dream I King Nebuchadnezzar have
seen now you Delta says declare its
interpretation since all the wise men of
my kingdom are not able to make known to
me the interpretation but you are able
for the spirit of the holy God is in you
when Daniel whose name was belteshazzar
was astonished for a time and his
thoughts troubled him so the King spoke
belteshazzar do not let the dream or its
interpretation trouble you my lord may
the dream concern those who hate you and
its interpretation concern your enemies
the tree that you saw which grew and
became strong whose height reached to
the heavens and which could be seen by
all the earth whose leaves were lovely
and its fruit abundant and which was
food for all under which the beasts of
the field dwelt and in whose branches
the birds of the heaven had their home
it is
Oh King who have grown and become strong
for your greatness has grown and reaches
to the heavens and your Dominion to the
end of the earth and and as much as the
king saw a watcher a holy one coming
down from heaven and saying chop down
the tree and destroy it
but leave it stump and roots in the
earth bound with a band of iron and
bronze and the tender grass of the field
let it be wet with the dew of heaven and
let him graze with the beasts of the
field till seven times pass over him
this is the interpretation o King and
this is the decree of the Most High
which has come upon my lord the King
they shall drive you from men your
dwelling shall be with the beasts of the
field and they shall make you eat grass
like oxen they shall wet you with the
dew of heaven and seven times shall pass
over you till you know that the most
high rules in the kingdom of men and
gives it to whomever he chooses and and
as much as they gave the command to lead
the stump and roots of the tree your
kingdom shall be assured to you after
you come to know that heaven rules
therefore O king let my advice be
acceptable to you break off your sins by
being righteous and your iniquities by
showing mercy to the poor perhaps there
may be a lengthening of your prosperity
all this came upon king nebuchadnezzar
at the end of the 12 months he was
walking about the royal palace of
babylon the king spoke is not this great
Babylon that I have built for a royal
dwelling by my mighty power and for the
honor of my majesty while the word was
still in the king's mouth her voice fell
from heaven King Nebuchadnezzar to you
it is spoken the Kingdom has departed
from you and they shall drive you from
men and your dwelling shall be with the
beasts of the field they shall make you
eat grass like oxen and seven times
shall pass over you until you know that
the most high rules in the kingdom of
men and gives it to whomever he chooses
that very hour the word was fulfilled
concerning Nebuchadnezzar he was driven
from men
and eight grass like oxen his body was
wet with the dew of heaven till his hair
had grown like Eagles feathers and his
nails like birds claws and at the end of
the time I Nebuchadnezzar lifted my eyes
to heaven and my understanding returned
to me and I blessed the most high and
praised and honored him who lives
forever
for his Dominion is an everlasting
Dominion and his kingdom is from
generation to generation all the
inhabitants of the earth are reputed as
nothing he does according to his will in
the army of heaven and among the
inhabitants of the earth no one can
restrain his hand or say to him what
have you done at the same time my reason
returned to me and for the glory of my
kingdom my honor and splendour returned
to me my counselors and my Nobles
resorted to me I was restored to my
kingdom and excellent Majesty was added
to me now I Nebuchadnezzar praise and
extol and honor the king of heaven all
of whose works are truth and his ways
justice and those who walk in pride he
is able to put down
you